# Mainboard payload

Based on system check app, which allows to test almost all systems, the same app can be used to validate some of the mainboard components and its connections, such as IMU readings or SD card detection.

<br /> 

## What you need

- Mu Editor

- Flight software;

- Mainboard;

- USB-C cable, with power and data lines;

<br /> 

## Step 1: Install Mu Editor

Based on [AdaFruit tutorial](https://learn.adafruit.com/welcome-to-circuitpython/installing-mu-editor):

> Mu is a simple code editor that works with the Adafruit CircuitPython boards. It's written in Python and works on Windows, MacOS, Linux and Raspberry Pi. The serial console is built right in so you get immediate feedback from your board's serial output!
>
> - Download Mu from its [official website](https:/www.codewith.mu);
>
> - Click the Download link for downloads and installation instructions;
>
> *NOTE: Click 'Start Here' to find other useful information, including extensive tutorials and how-to's.*
>
> - The first time you start Mu, you will be prompted to select your 'mode' - in our case, CircuitPython;
>
> *NOTE: Mu attempts to auto-detect your board on startup, so if you do not have a CircuitPython board plugged in with a CIRCUITPY drive available, Mu will inform you where it will store any code you save until you plug in a board.*
>
> - You can now explore Mu: you can use the text editor to edit the files (or use one at your preference) and interface with the main board with the serial console.

*TIP: in serial console, while the mainboard is plugged to your machine, use CTRL+C to stop the current program running on the board and CTRL+D to start the one on the volume. If the 'resource is busy' alert pops up, reconnect the board.*

<br /> 

## Step 2: Test the mainboard

- Build (following the [steps](https://afs-pt.github.io/PROMETHEUS-1/2.%20Satellite/2.2.%20Engineering%20unit/2.2.3.%20Software/2.2.3.2.%20Build%20an%20application/) above) and copy the system check files to the CIRCUITPY board;

- Open Mu Editor serial console and start running the program (CTRL+D);

- Follow the serial prompt, typing the code word for each specific test to be run.

You have 8 tests in total available in this application, however only 3 can help you to validade in this phase (IMU, NVM, SD).

Later in the guide, in [System check](https://afs-pt.github.io/PROMETHEUS-1/2.%20Satellite/2.2.%20Engineering%20unit/2.2.6.%20System%20check/2.2.6.1.%20System%20check%20description/) chapter, there is a detailed overview of this application, with the description of each test and expected result.